### Problem: collect oil from 100 platforms

      .   (B).   .
    .   .   (A).
      .   .      .

### Solutions
A. use a tanker (big ship; send it to each platform)
  - input: cost(A, B) - go from A to B
  - visit every platform, minimize cost
  - best algorithm (assume $$10^9$$ ops/sec) $$\simeq 4 * 10^{13}$$ years $$\simeq 2^{100}$$ ops

          .__(B).    .
           \     \  /
        .___.  (A)./
         \          
          .___._____.

B. use pipelines
  - input: cost(A, B) - minimum spanning tree
  - time $$\lt 100^2$$ ops $$~= 10 \mu s$$

          .  (B).    .
           \  /     /
        .___.___(A).
           / \      \
          .   .      .

C. extra constraint: $$\leq 4$$ piplines per platform
  - back to $$4 * 10^{13}$$ years

D. add extra connection points?
  - doesn't help

E. back to tanker idea, but relax requirement to: find *approximate* minimum cost tour?
  - general problem: no help...
  - if we restrict input to satisfy the *triangle inequality*:
      + cost(A, B) <= cost(A, C), + cost(C, B)
      + polynomial time solution (~= 100^4 ops ~= 0.1 sec)


## Overview

1. algorithmic techniques to solve problems efficiently
2. techniques to prove that some problems cannot be solved efficiently
3. heuristics


# Greedy Algorithms
Algorithms which make the most efficient decisions at the immediate moment

## Problem: Activity Scheduling
Input: 
 - Activities $$A_1 = (s_1, f_1), ..., A_n = (s_n, f_n)$$
 - with $$s_i \lt f_i, s_i = \text{start time}, f_i = \text{finish time}, s_i, f_i \in \mathbb{N}$$

Output:
 - $$S \subset \{A_1, ..., A_n\}$$ such that no two activities in $$S$$ overlap and $$|S|$$ (size of S) is *maximum*

> NOTE:
>  - *maximal*: cannot be improved by the algorithm
>  - *maximum*: the best overall, in principle

A. brute force: consider every subset of $$\{A_1, ..., A_n\}$$
  - correctness: immediate
  - runtime: $$\gt 2^n$$

B. greedy by start time

    sort activities so s_1 <= s_2 <= ... <= s_n
    assign S = {}  # current set of activities
    assign f = 0   # last finish time in S
    for i = 1, 2, ..., n:
      if s_i >= f:  # A_i does not overlap with anything in S
        S = S union {A_i}
        f = f_i

  - runtime: $$\theta (n \log n)$$
